Add get appcatalogs and get apps to kubectl gs docs (#937)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/ui-api/kubectl-gs/get-appcatalogs.md

---
linkTitle: get appcatalogs
title: "'kubectl gs get appcatalogs' command reference"
description: Reference documentation on how to list appcatalogs and get details for a single appcatalog using 'kubectl gs'.
weight: 20
menu:
  main:
    parent: uiapi-kubectlgs
aliases:
  - /reference/kubectl-gs/get-appcatalogs/
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-batman
user_questions:
  - How can I list appcatalogs using kubectl?
  - How can I inspect appcatalogs using kubectl?
---

# `kubectl gs get appcatalogs`

Like with all `get` commands in `kubectl`, this command can be used to get details on one item, an [AppCatalog]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/appcatalogs.application.giantswarm.io.md" >}})
custom resource in this case, or list several of them.

## Usage

> ### Get a list of appcatalogs {#list}

Reviewer: What do you think about having `App Catalogs` instead of `appcatalogs` everywhere? It would be consistent with our other docs

```suggestion
### Get a list of App Catalogs {#list}
```

Author: Thanks, yes I think it's better with that casing.

Simply execute

```nohighlight
kubectl gs get appcatalogs
```

to list some information on all available public App Catalogs.

Here is some example output:

```nohighlight
NAME                    CATALOG URL                                                   AGE
giantswarm              https://giantswarm.github.io/giantswarm-catalog/              280d
giantswarm-playground   https://giantswarm.github.io/giantswarm-playground-catalog/   280d
```

### Get specific App Catalog

When used with an App Catalog name as additional argument, the command will show
the latest available version of each App in the catalog according to
[semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).

Example:

```nohighlight
kubectl gs get appcatalogs giantswarm
```

```nohighlight
kubectl gs get appcatalogs giantswarm

> CATALOG      APP NAME                       APP VERSION   VERSION                                          AGE
> giantswarm   cert-manager-app               1.3.1         2.7.0                                            25h

Reviewer 2: To make the table a bit narrower. (Our content column isn't very wide, so in order to get everything visible without scrolling...)

```suggestion
CATALOG      APP NAME                       APP VERSION   VERSION            AGE
giantswarm   cert-manager-app               1.3.1         2.7.0              25h
```

Author: Thanks, that's much better.

```

Note: As an alternative to `get appcatalogs`, `get appcatalog` will also work.

## Output {#columns}

The standard tabular output format for App Catalogs features these columns:

- `NAME`: Name of the App Catalog.
- `URL`: URL for the Helm chart repository.

> - `AGE`: How long ago the appcatalog was created.

Reviewer 3: Question for me:
Does `AGE` here refer to "we established this 280 days ago" or "we created this particular CR 280 days ago"

Author: Yes, that's not very clear.

It maps to the creationTimestamp of the appcatalog CR. I've renamed it to `CREATED`. As I think that's more accurate and aligns with `get clusters`.

# `kubectl gs get appcatalogs`

> Like with all `get` commands in `kubectl`, this command can be used to get details on one item, an [App Catalog]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/appcatalogs.application.giantswarm.io.md" >}})

Reviewer: I think here it should remain as it is, since it's the `kind` of the CRD

```suggestion
Like with all `get` commands in `kubectl`, this command can be used to get details on one item, an [AppCatalog]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/appcatalogs.application.giantswarm.io.md" >}})
```

Author: True, it should match the kind. 👍

To inspect a cluster's main custom resource in YAML notation, add the `--output yaml` flag (or `-o yaml` in short) to the command.

> The following example command would print the main resource for cluster `ab12c`. It would return the [App Catalog]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/appcatalogs.application.giantswarm.io.md" >}}) resource.

Reviewer: Same here

```suggestion
The following example command would print the main resource for cluster `ab12c`. It would return the [AppCatalog]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/appcatalogs.application.giantswarm.io.md" >}}) resource.
```
